.
(male announcer)
In the criminal justice system,
sexually based offenses are
considered especially heinous.
In New York City,
the dedicated detectives
who investigate
these vicious felonies
are members of an elite squad
known
as the Special Victims Unit.
These are their stories.
[Cobra Starship's Good Girls Go
Bad featuring Leighton Meester]
* I make them good girls
go bad *
* I make them good girls go
* Good girls go
(Benson)
We're going to see Dr. Lee
today.
Guess who's gonna
get a lollipop.
You remember Dr. Lee,
don't you?
Oh, yes.
I want a lollipop.
* You're Daddy's little girl
* Just take a bite
99. How do you feel?
I'm fine.
[coughs]
Dad says I should
go to school.
Okay, but take it easy.
* Lose control
Bye, Aiden.
* She was so shy
* Till I drove her wild
Okay.
Thank you so much.
* I make them good girls
go bad *
- This is Aiden.
- This is Noah.
* I make them good girls
go bad *
* You were hanging in the corner
with your five best friends *
[coughs]
* But you couldn't resist
* I make them good girls
go bad *
We be on?
Oh, yeah.
* I make them good girls go
Good morning,
Principal Schwartz.
Get to class, boys.
* Good girls go
[all cheering]
- * I know your type
- * Your type
* Boy, you're dangerous
- * Yeah, you're that guy
- * That guy
* I'd be stupid to trust
* But just one night
* Couldn't be so wrong
* You make me
want to lose control *
* She was so shy
* Till I drove her wild
* I make them good girls
go bad *
* I make
them good girls go bad *
* I was hanging in the corner
with my five best friends *
* I heard that you were trouble,
but I couldn't resist *
* I make them good girls
go bad *
* I make them good girls go
* Good girls go
*
* Oh, she got a way
with the boys in the place *
* Treat 'em like
they don't stand a chance *
* And he got a way
with the girls in the back *
* Acting like they too hot
to dance *
* Yeah, she got a way
with the boys in the place *
* Treat 'em like
they don't stand a chance *
* And he got a way
with the girls in the back *
* Acting like they too hot
to dance *
* I make them good girls
go bad *
* I make
them good girls go *
* Them good girls
* Go bad
May I see that?
* I make them good girls go
* Good girls go
[dramatic music]
.
So a group of kids
from Tribeca Academy
went off campus today for lunch
and had a rainbow party.
A rainbow party?
They're still having those?
I thought
they were a suburban myth.
Yeah, well, apparently not.
Explicit photos were taken,
and then they went viral
at the school,
so we've got a lot of kids,
panicking parents.
Did I miss an episode
of Girls?
Remind me
what a rainbow party is.
Remind you?
It's when, um, when girls wear
different shades of lipstick
and they take turns
on the guys.
Yeah, the first guy to get every
color of the rainbow, he wins.
Come on. We'll brief
each other in the car, guys.
Let's go.
I'm never having kids.
(Schwartz)
Thank you for coming so quickly.
I don't think that what
they did was a crime.
Okay, you did the right thing
by calling us.
Now, were you able
to ID the kids from the party?
Yes, I was.
There were nine of them.
All ninth and tenth graders.
Their parents pay 45,000 a year
in tuition.
They're not taking this well.
[overlapping chatter]
Everyone quiet, please.
Quiet!
The police are here to take
your children's statements.
Police?
These are kids.
- This is ridiculous.
- Savannah didn't do anything.
I realize
that we're all upset.
There will be time
to discuss policy going forward.
For now, we need to deal
with the situation at hand.
This is Sergeant Benson
from SVU.
- SVU? Are you kidding me?
- What's going on?
That's unbelievable.
We realize that kids are kids,
and we want
to keep this in proportion.
We just also need to determine
if any crimes were committed.
- Crimes?
- This is a mistake.
Why'd they even call the police?
You can be present
when we talk to your child.
As for cell phones
and social media,
any pictures from the party
should not be posted or shared.
We appreciate
your cooperation.
Thank you.
Shall we begin?
Good luck.
And where did you hear
about the party?
Jaden texted me.
Savannah's parents
weren't home.
We were just gonna
get some tacos.
It wasn't
my daughter's idea.
You were bullied,
right, honey?
Look, the lipstick
was the girls' idea.
Uh-huh, and what they did
after they put it on,
whose idea was that?
My son told me the girls were
just as complicit as the boys.
I don't feel
so good, Mom.
I just need to know if anybody
asked you to do something
that you didn't want to do.
There was this pressure
to do all the guys.
Some of the girls did
but not me.
I don't even like Jaden.
Okay, okay.
The guys you were with,
did they pressure you?
It's okay to tell them,
Savannah.
Mom, it was mostly
just Leo.
You know him.
He's my lab partner.
I don't know
where the lipstick came from.
We were just playing a game.
What kind of game, Leo?
It's this game where you
suck a card against your lips,
and then you try--
Blow it on someone else?
Yeah, but, I mean,
sometimes the card falls.
[coughs]
Then you just kiss
when that happens.
Okay, so kissing games.
Whose idea was it
to go further?
Excuse me.
We've met, haven't we?
I'm Colleen Dole.
We saw each other this morning
at the pediatrician's office.
- So Gabriel's your older son?
- Stepson.
He lives with me and his father,
who's in Moscow on business.
Does Dad have to know
about this?
That you were drinking
and smoking
and doing God
knows what else?
He already does.
Fine, there was
weed there, Dad.
But I didn't smoke it.
I run track.
So we done here?
Not yet.
Your son sent sexually explicit
photos of himself
and some of the girls
to other students.
Okay, who were you
playing "lipstick party" with?
I'm sorry,
isn't that Leo's business?
Not anymore.
Now if you want,
we can take your son in
and have CSU do a body exam.
This is unfair.
These parties have been
going on all year.
This is my first one,
and I get grounded?
Gabriel, are you
all right?
Your father
called me from Moscow.
- I'm fine.
- I've got this, Trudy.
You don't look fine,
and you're warm.
Colleen, has he been
eating dairy again?
Excuse me.
I'm Sergeant Benson.
Trudy Malko.
I'm Gabriel's mother.
- We share custody.
- Okay.
I heard Savannah hosted this.
Just so you know, Mia's a very
engaged parent, very present.
I'm sure she didn't know
about this.
Okay, thank you.
That's helpful.
[coughs]
[knocks at door]
Sarge, when you have a minute,
Mr. Boylan and--
Ah, Mrs. Dole.
Come on in.
How can we help you?
Thank you.
We just wanted to apologize.
We know you took a lot of grief
at the school today.
Everyone was defensive,
fronting.
- Freaking out, really.
- Yeah.
I mean,
most of these kids
have never been in trouble
before--not like this.
Please, we understand.
Listen, every parent's
first instinct
is to protect their child.
That's why
we're here.
We wanted
to let you know that
we're very upset about
this party the kids threw.
And not just
the messing around,
but the drinking,
the pot--
Messing around?
This wasn't just
a game of Spin the Bottle.
We know.
I had Gabriel show me
the photos.
He is in very big trouble
at home.
His father's
flying back tonight.
And we appreciate that,
but we still need to conduct
our investigation.
About that,
there are some rumors
going around.
The girls parents
are saying
the boys might
be arrested.
Even though their girls
were just as complicit.
What Michael means is
these are good kids.
No one was forced
to do anything.
(Colleen)
They would never hurt each
other. They're all friends.
That we understand,
Mrs. Dole,
but there are
age of consent issues
and video issues
to deal with.
The selfies?
That's what kids do now.
They record everything.
But when they post or email
those images,
it crosses a line.
So you are
charging them?
- Oh, my God.
- I told you we should've
- called a lawyer.
- Listen. No. Listen.
I'm glad that you came in and
there's no need to panic now.
We have two of our detectives
at the D.A.'s office right now
trying to sort this out.
The D.A.?
Please keep
some perspective.
Our boys are 15
and 16.
They won't do this again.
Nine teenagers alone
in a $10 million loft
in Tribeca.
What could possibly
go wrong?
Well, they got drunk and high.
Stripped down and had
an oral sex competition.
They used different
shades of lipstick.
I-I get it.
No teachers?
They're all minors?
Ranging in age from
14 to 16.
No one's claiming
coercion.
Since no minor
engaged in sexual activity
with anybody over 18,
I don't see statutory.
You don't?
Not your call.
But you're right.
The bigger issue is
these photos.
How explicit
do they get?
Well, help yourself.
Here.
Okay...
Huh...you realize that
just showing me these
could be considered
a federal crime?
Seriously?
Yeah, if that's
your personal tablet,
I'd get rid of those.
How viral
has this gone?
In the school,
pretty far.
Email? Text?
Social media?
We're not sure.
Parents circled
their wagons.
They brought up
right to privacy issues.
I'm sure they did,
but we gotta
track these images down
and remove them
from the internet.
Awesome idea!
How do we do that?
Contact trace it.
You said these photos
have been shared
with every student
in the school?
Confiscate every
kid's phone.
- Go from there.
- Every phone?
Okay, why not call NSA,
get them to
tap their parents
while we're at it?
Easy, Citizen Four,
we're not wiretapping.
But we have got to
protect these kids.
With facial recognition,
geo-tagging, photo tagging,
there could be
pornographers and predators
honing in on them now.
You want to explain that
to the parents?
That's your job.
Have fun.
Your last name?
[overlapping chatter]
I've gotten phone calls
from parents threatening
to sue for violation
of their kids' civil rights.
You tell them that if we
don't contain this now,
there'll be images
of their children
on the internet for eternity.
And what is
your passcode, Chloe?
Are you gonna
wipe my phone?
I just got to level 386
on Candy Crush.
1097,
1097.
Write down your username
and password for Facebook,
Instagram, Snapchat--
What?
You have no right to ask--
Leo, write them down.
This is good.
You can read a book.
You left some lines
blank, Jaden.
I don't want the NYPD
reading my blog.
Yeah, don't worry
about that.
Gabriel Dole. Where is he?
Home sick.
I'm his mother.
I have his cell.
Well, we need his passwords,
Mrs. Dole.
Trudy Malko.
I'm happily uncoupled.
Well, is there a landline
where your son is?
Call him. Come back
when you've filled this out.
Okay.
I'm finding this
very invasive, Hannah.
I'm sure you don't want
sexually explicit images
of Gabriel going viral
on the internet, Trudy.
It's for your son's
protection.
Well, shouldn't that
be my call, then?
Not if it involves
child pornography charges.
It must be stressful
to spend so much time
in such a dark world.
She's...got
a lifestyle website.
She reviews holistic treatments,
herbal therapies.
She's the queen bee
of the Tribeca moms.
Well,
there's one in every hive.
[phone vibrates]
Oh, excuse me.
Dr. Lee.
No, Noah's home
with the babysitter.
Why? Is everything okay?
He was exposed to
measles? How?
Another patient
in the waiting room.
And Noah may have been exposed.
Let's not panic.
He was just vaccinated
yesterday.
Which is good,
but the vaccine takes time
to go into full effect.
No fever so far,
also a good sign.
This patient that he was
exposed to, was it Aiden Dole?
He has an older brother,
Gabriel.
- I'm sorry, I can't say.
- Of course.
I understand.
So what now?
Is there anything I can do
preventative?
I mean,
with his respiratory issues?
I'd like you
to quarantine him at home.
No exposure
to other children.
Adults who have been
vaccinated are fine.
For how long?
Eight days to start.
I know that with your job
it will be difficult.
We'll do whatever
we have to, right?
Come here, little man.
.
Thank you guys
for coming.
Just put that stuff
on any surface you can find.
Chief says you can work from
here as long as you need, Liv.
[Noah crying]
Hey, how's Noah doing?
You know, he's cranky
and he's sluggish.
So just keeping my fingers
crossed.
Lucy's here helping me out.
So how was the cell phone
retrieval?
Rollins and Carisi
are sorting through with TARU.
May be short a few phones.
I'll talk to
Principal Schwartz.
You know,
on another issue--
Noah's exposure to measles
may have come
from a Tribeca Academy student.
It's in D.C. and Jersey.
It's bound to come here.
Look, Zara's school in L.A.
is ground zero for anti-vaxxers.
Hey,
has Gil been vaccinated?
Well, I wasn't around
when he was one.
I'm picking him up
this afternoon.
Yeah, I'll put in a call
to his mom.
[Noah crying in background]
Gil.
Good to see you.
- Want some?
- What?
No, no thanks.
So, uh, I talked
to your mom earlier today.
You talk about
us moving?
Moving?
What do you mean?
Maybe she don't want
you to know yet.
Know what?
Hey, you can tell
me anything.
You know that.
What...
She says we're moving
to San Diego in July.
Well, she say why?
The gangs in the neighborhood
are getting bad.
But I don't want to go.
I'll never see you again.
Maybe you can talk to her.
I will.
Hey, and don't you worry.
You're gonna
see me no matter what.
It's all gonna be fine.
Excuse me,
just a moment.
[background chatter]
This is an unmitigated
disaster.
It's not ideal.
Can we talk in your office?
That's not a good idea
right now.
Walk me through
this again.
Okay, TARU used the photos
from the kids' phones
that we confiscated to run
a reverse image search.
- How many hits?
- We don't know, but a lot.
They're already posted
on RedChanIt,
dark net kiddie porn sites.
Some middle school idiot
uploaded these images
after we explicitly
said not to?
Why am I not surprised?
My mother calls it
"teenacity."
And TARU can't trace it back
to any of the devices
in custody?
No.
Are there devices
not in custody?
By our count, there's seven.
Two from the party -
Savannah Biel, Hudson Cuesta.
One 16-year-old, Larry Heller,
and a few more 14-year-olds.
Some of the parents
were making noise
about civil rights violations.
I don't want to say
I told you so--
Then don't. It's just
as likely their parents
are worried that their kids are
circulating child pornography.
So you guys
need warrants for all seven?
That's why we're here.
I realize the situation
is serious,
but not all of these parents
are being deliberately
uncooperative.
Savannah Biel and Hudson Cuesta
were home sick yesterday.
With measles?
That's confidential,
Detective.
We've notified the CDC and are
proceeding according to policy.
Okay,
and how about Larry Heller?
The other tenth grader?
Is he home sick too?
No, his mother's a lawyer.
Arlene Heller.
[groans]
She was Walter Briggs'
widow's attorney.
Kind of a live wire.
Did you tell her
that we have a warrant?
She didn't let me
get that far.
I didn't know
you had a kid, Counselor.
Don't remind me.
A kid, a cat,
and a client at 5:00,
so let's get this over with.
You have a warrant
for my kid's cell phone?
What is this, 1984?
He wasn't at the party.
Look at him!
He's on the chess team.
Well, he's still gonna
have to comply.
All right.
Give 'em the damn phone, Larry.
I-I can't, I lost it.
What? That's it.
You're done, Larry.
I swear to God.
This is the third one
in eight months.
- Is one of these your locker?
- I--
'Cause maybe you left it
in your locker
and you don't remember?
The warrant covers
his locker.
Open it, Larry.
I really lost it.
It's really not
in here.
[cell phone rings]
You're dumber than your father,
you know that?
(Trudy)
Instead of sending
alarmist emails about measles,
the school needs to reexamine
their walkaway lunch policy.
My problem is the drinking--
Where did the alcohol
- come from?
- [apartment buzzer]
Not here.
I checked every bottle.
I heard one of the boys
brought it.
It wasn't Gabriel.
I asked.
You know what
worries me?
If the kids
can smuggle in booze,
who's to say next time
it won't be a knife or a gun?
It's outrageous.
(Rollins)
Detective Rollins,
Detective Carisi.
Oh, um...I'll buzz you in.
Haven't they pried into
our kids' private lives enough?
We're responsible parents.
The police don't need
to act like the CIA.
Can I help you?
Yeah, your daughter
wasn't at school yesterday
and we have a warrant
for her cell phone.
She told me
she deleted the photos.
Maybe we could just
talk to her.
No, she's resting.
She's home sick today too.
It wouldn't happen to be
with the measles, would it?
Did the school tell you that?
So she does have measles.
Wait here.
I'll get you her phone.
So some images
ended up on porn sites.
Can we stop this
from spreading?
You know how it goes, Liv.
Once you put it out there,
you can't pull it back.
Well, the legit sites
have taken 'em down,
but they've gone viral.
Rollins and Carisi
are retrieving
the last of the phones.
TARU should be able to find out
which student linked them.
Then what? Arrest them?
They're 15 years old.
And white. And rich.
It's not gonna happen.
We all know it's true.
So how's little man?
I couldn't get him down
for his nap.
- He's running a fever.
- But you know,
two of the kids
who didn't turn in their phones
were out sick.
Kids from the party?
Yeah, Rollins
thought they might have measles.
How? They had to have been
vaccinated.
Liv! Liv,
I gave Noah his inhaler,
but he's still having
trouble breathing.
He's--he's turning blue.
Call 911!
I'll get the car.
It's faster.
Yeah,
we'll meet you out front.
16 months, cyanotic.
Start him on oxygen.
We may need to intubate.
[Noah cries]
It's okay, Noah.
It's okay, sweetie.
You're gonna be okay.
It's okay, my love.
- It's okay, my love.
- Olivia, you have to wait here.
- No no, I'm going in.
- Not now.
I'll let you know as soon
as we stabilize him.
.
- Hey.
- Any word?
Yeah, they want to keep
him on oxygen.
Dr. Lee's in there
with him now.
Nick,
you don't have to stay.
Fin's on his way.
As soon as he gets here,
I'll punch out.
Okay.
- Hey, how is he?
- Noah's sedated.
He's stabilized,
but I noted Koplik's spots
in his mouth.
First signs of measles.
So what happens next?
He'll develop a rash
on his body within a day or two,
and we'll keep him here
under observation.
Can I see him?
- I'll get you a gown.
- Okay.
Thanks.
I think I feel warm.
Hey, Rollins.
Feel my forehead.
- I'm not feeling your forehead.
- Come on.
Okay, thank you.
Oh, wait.
You got a little something here.
And there.
Seriously?
Another one here.
[gasps]
Okay, that's not funny.
All right?
Measles is one of the most
infectious diseases
on the planet.
It's airborne, Rollins.
It lives on surfaces
like cell phones for hours.
But Carisi,
you're vaccinated, right?
Yeah,
but that's not 100% effective.
Look, I got an update
from TARU.
They trace
that teen pornographer?
Yeah. Larry Heller.
The kid is not so bright.
The mom was right.
His cell phone serial number
was embedded in the photos.
His mother's got a mouth
on her.
Who wants to give her
the good news?
Let's pass this one
off to Barba.
She's a lawyer.
Professional courtesy.
Okay, Larry's a screw-up.
He is not a child pornographer.
The four sites your son
disseminated those images to
thought he was.
Disseminated?
Are you serious?
Dissemination charges put him on
the sex registry till he's 40.
Those photos were geo-tagged,
putting these kids,
and others, in danger.
You wanna talk about kids
in danger?
The kids at that party
are in danger.
From measles.
Gabriel Dole,
Savannah Biel, Hudson Cuesta.
And I heard half a dozen others
have come down with it.
Spreading measles
isn't a crime.
No? These hippy-dippy moms
never vaccinated their kids
and lied about it.
15 years later,
half my son's class is infected.
You have any proof they lied?
Hello?
New York requires every kid
in school to be immunized.
So how is this spreading?
Those moms colluded to find ways
around the vaccine mandate.
Colluding?
You think they're part of
some anti-vaxxer conspiracy?
Okay, don't make me out
to be paranoid.
There could be a measles
epidemic in New York
while you people are conducting
a lipstick porn witch hunt.
Counselor, breathe.
We're not looking
to put your son on the registry.
But he doesn't just
get a free pass.
He's 16 years old.
These online sickos
are using him.
How about he cooperates
and you go after them?
And he testifies.
If need be.
So unless you're planning
to perp walk Larry,
we're done here.
We'll be in touch.
She called our bluff.
And that measles misdirect.
Offense is the best defense.
Yeah, but she
may not be blowing smoke.
Noah's in the hospital.
What does that have
to do with Tribeca Academy?
Well, I think he might've been
infected by the younger sibling
of one of the boys at the party.
Maybe these kids
had a vaccination exemption.
I don't want to pull a Carisi,
but we could be looking
at reckless endangerment.
Find out if we are.
(Principal Schwartz)
Seven students
confirmed with measles,
at least four others possible.
We've closed down for the rest
of the week as a precaution.
Aren't the kids
supposed to be vaccinated?
Yes, they are.
I checked every health form.
We only have two medical
exemptions, for allergies.
Both sophomores, both healthy.
What about religious
exemptions or personal belief,
like California?
We don't allow
personal belief exemptions.
And as for religious exemptions,
New York State
makes those very hard to get.
Well, even so, do you mind
if we look through the forms?
(Fin)
All these records
are signed by an M.D.
Of course they are.
No one starts the school year
without that.
I got four
of the infected kids.
Different ages,
records dated and signed.
The paperwork looks right.
Five, six, seven...
I can't make out
some of these signatures,
but they're all
of the same address.
Hudson Park Pediatrics.
All four of mine
are also Hudson Park Pediatrics.
The network's pretty tight
in a small school like this.
These families share
the same tutors,
[phone chimes]
piano teachers, doctors.
Oh, God.
Two more confirmed
for measles.
Hmm.
Nine kids from the same
pediatric practice.
The CDC knows? Good.
Now you gotta talk
to that doctor.
I got Noah's latest
blood work back.
His sed rate
and white blood count are up,
and I listened to his lungs.
He's fighting
a respiratory infection.
- Do you think it's pneumonia?
- I'm not sure.
I want to start him
on an antibiotic right away.
He's been on them
so many times.
At this point,
I'd rather shoot first
and ask questions later.
Your son really doesn't need
his third bout with pneumonia
in his first two years.
I know, I know.
Hold on, Dr. Lee.
One more thing, um...
Do you know
a Dr. Eric Setrakian,
Hudson Park Pediatrics?
He's old-school.
Likes to Ferberize.
Doesn't over-medicate
or over-test.
Parents love him.
Of course I've heard
about the measles outbreak.
How is this a police matter?
Well, nine of the kids at
that school have been infected,
and they were all
vaccinated here.
Wow.
You guys
are doing due diligence, huh?
I'll check the records.
You do know that the MMR vaccine
isn't 100% effective?
Still, nine kids?
We're talking about a period
of over 10 years.
I can't tell you
how many doctors have rotated
through the practice
in that time.
But you've always been here.
Let me look into this
for you.
- Hmm.
- In the meantime,
I have a full waiting room.
Thank you.
He's lying, stonewalling,
or both.
If he did fake
the immunization records,
- the mothers have to know.
- Yeah.
Of course my daughter
was vaccinated.
But as I'm sure you know,
the vaccine
- isn't completely effective.
- Well, you know, that's funny,
'cause Dr. Setrakian
said the same thing.
You spoke
with our pediatrician?
- What gives you the right?
- A number of his patients,
including Savannah,
have become infected.
So we think he may have been
deliberately falsifying records.
You know anything about that?
I have to take care
of my daughter.
Mom? What's going on?
I picked up some soup
and honeysuckle tea.
I'll be right there.
We were just having fun.
That loser Larry
ruined it for everyone.
Go back to your room,
Savannah.
[coughs]
Do you want to tell us
what's going on?
I think you should go now.
We can go.
We can also get our D.A.
to take another look
at your daughter
for promoting child
pornography.
You don't understand.
She was just a baby.
The chemicals,
the threat of autism.
I tried a religious exemption,
but it was denied.
So you asked Dr. Setrakian
to falsify your records.
It wasn't my idea.
Just tell us
whose idea this was.
Thank you for seeing us,
Ms. Malko.
I brought our ADA
Rafael Barba.
Is this about that party?
I can assure you
the parents association
is dealing with the school.
We just have
some questions.
So how is your son doing?
He's out of the woods.
This has been stressful
for Colleen.
I've always insisted
that Gabriel be raised in ways
that strengthen
his natural immunity.
Is that why he was never
vaccinated?
We can subpoena
a blood sample.
The risks of vaccination
outweigh the benefits.
When Gabriel was born,
I tried to get a medical
or religious exemption,
but I couldn't get either one.
So that's why you had Dr.
Setrakian lie on his records?
He believes parents
should have the right to decide
what's best for their children.
Did you recommend him
to other families
looking to get around
the law?
The law is unjust.
As a mother protecting my child,
I can't tell you
how many mothers
thank me for what I'm doing.
Doing?
So you're still steering parents
to Dr. Setrakian?
Okay, we're gonna
need their names.
I won't betray them.
The AMA, the CDC,
the Board of Health,
the Department of Education--
they are the villains here.
- Go after them.
- After them?
You're encouraging
other parents.
You are endangering the health
of every child in this city.
So this is personal?
Because your son took ill,
you and you
are coming after me?
No, this has nothing to do
with Sergeant Benson's son.
You are openly flouting
the law.
.
On the counts
of reckless endangerment,
conspiracy,
and falsifying business records
in the second degree,
Trudy Malko, how do you plead?
The only thing I'm pleading to
is doing what's best for my son.
Not guilty, Your Honor.
We request R.O.R.
Ms. Malko has no priors, and she
has a sick child at home.
Yep. He's sick due to
Ms. Malko's own decision
not to vaccinate.
My client has no intention
of fleeing.
- She wants to fight her case.
- And win.
Dr. Setrakian and I are willing
to risk our reputations,
our livelihoods, to fight for
our rights against government--
R.O.R. is granted.
Mr. Roth, does your client share
the same view?
Approach, Your Honor?
Please.
My client would like
to separate himself from
Joan of Arc back there.
Dr. Setrakian is nearing
retirement
and is willing to plea
to reckless endangerment
in the second
if Mr. Barba will take prison
off the table.
So he can move his act
to Florida?
I'll accept if he gives us
the names of all the patients
whose records he falsified,
forfeits his license,
and agrees to testify
against Ms. Malko.
I'm sure
that won't be a problem.
(judge)
We're done.
Hey, Barba,
you got a minute?
- Barely, what's up?
- Quick update.
Turns out
the counselor's son's
actually a pretty
good CI.
He's got six pedophiles
on the hook,
all willing to exchange
pornographic files.
- We're talking zip drives--
- Great, reel 'em in.
Let TARU track
'em down.
So after this,
you're done with Larry?
Unless I need him
to testify at trial,
- we're good.
- I'm relieved.
Did you ever follow up
with Typhoid Trudy
or the other
anti-vaxxer moms?
You know the school
had to shut down
to decontaminate?
Turns out
you're a good CI too.
Your friend, Trudy Malko,
just got arraigned.
She'll get
her day in court.
You're welcome!
We heard testimony
from Dr. Eric Setrakian,
as well as numerous parents
that the defendant, Trudy Malko,
conspired to falsify
vaccination records.
Dr. Rudnick, is measles still
a dangerous illness?
Very. On top of having
a higher infection rate
than Ebola, the virus
can lead to pneumonia,
bronchitis,
even encephalitis or death.
Prosecution Exhibit J,
Your Honor.
A CDC transmission map of
the current Manhattan outbreak.
Dr. Rudnick, what does
this first red dot indicate?
That's Tribeca Academy,
the school Patient Zero,
the defendant's son, attends.
And how did the defendant's
son become Patient Zero?
The CDC determined
he contracted measles
on a recent trip to
the under-vaccinated community
of Pacific Palisades.
What do these dots represent?
The residences
of Tribeca Academy classmates
who contracted measles
from Patient Zero.
And these dots?
The 48 confirmed cases
of measles around the city.
Have you had any cases
in individuals
who were actually vaccinated?
None.
All were unvaccinated.
Thank you so much, Doctor.
No further questions,
Your Honor.
Dr. Rudnick, do you happen
to know the number of children
who are killed by vaccines
each year?
No.
How many families
are compensated
by the U.S. Department
of Health's
own Vaccine
Injury Compensation Fund?
I don't know.
Can you even tell me
any of the known side effects
of the MMR vaccine?
Side effects are
mostly mild.
But the more serious ones
include vasculitis,
pancreatitis, diabetes mellitus.
Can you tell the jury
the percentage
of vaccinated children who
experienced these side effects?
Those side effects
are statistically insignificant.
Some one in a million.
Tell that to the parents
of a child who's actually
experiencing them.
Nothing further.
Because of my son's
respiratory issues,
his pediatrician
recommended that he be
quarantined post-exposure.
How was he exposed?
Through another patient
in the waiting room.
The CDC has confirmed
through epidemiological testing
that Noah's exposure
came from Patient Zero.
Objection.
The Sergeant is not a doctor
or a medical researcher.
Sustained.
Jury will disregard.
Sergeant Benson,
can you describe your son's
- complications?
- Yes.
He was having difficulty
breathing.
He then had to
be hospitalized.
He was then diagnosed
with measles
and has since developed
pneumonia,
and he is still
in pediatric ICU.
Thank you.
Thank you for testifying today.
Sergeant, I'm sorry
your son is sick.
Now, is it possible
that his exposure is the reason
you had your department
pursue this case?
Ms. Malko led
a coordinated effort
to hide unimmunized students
in a New York City school.
That rises to the level
of child endangerment.
A conclusion you reached
after your son fell ill.
Are you aware that many people
believe giving vaccines
to young children actually
compromises their immune system?
That's a completely
unfounded theory.
Vaccines build immunity.
Your son--I'm sorry,
your foster son--
is 16 months, yes?
Just shy of 16, yes.
So if you believe
that vaccines build immunity,
and your son
is immuno-compromised,
why didn't you vaccinate him
as early as recommended?
- At 12 months?
- Because my pediatrician
decided to delay
his immunizations
because of his compromised
immune system.
We were at the doctor's office
waiting to get his MMR
when he was exposed.
You are blaming my client
for your son's illness,
but you are the one
who chose to delay his MMR.
- My pediatrician--
- Did you think
it was the best possible
decision to wait?
- Yes, I did.
- Just like Ms. Malko
thought it best
not to vaccinate her son at all?
No further questions.
I'm not panicking.
Okay, I'm on my way.
Thank you.
Sergeant Benson,
I was hoping to find you.
Ms. Malko,
this really isn't a good time.
I know this is difficult
for you,
but your son
will get through this.
He'll never get
measles again,
and he'll be stronger because
his body did it all on its own.
You really don't want to get
into this with me right now.
My son is suffering.
They're upping his antibiotics.
Overexposure to antibiotics
may be why his immune system
is so weak.
That's another thing
you should think about.
You may want to think
about shutting your mouth.
My son wouldn't have pneumonia
if it weren't for you.
Liv--Liv!
Is everything all right?
No. His fever is spiking.
And if it doesn't come down,
.
I'm sorry for anyone
whose child is sick,
including Sergeant Benson.
Many experts believe
that western medicine,
the overuse of antibiotics
and vaccines
actually
impose unnecessary risks
to the wellness of children.
Have you personally
experienced
the harmful effects
vaccines can have?
Yes.
My nephew, Braedon,
is 18.
Around his first birthday,
after he received the 23 doses
of vaccinations recommended
by his pediatrician,
he regressed into autism.
And how do you know his autism
was caused by vaccines?
A few days after
his first MMR vaccination,
Braedon changed.
He had been such a bright,
lively, engaged little boy.
And then, suddenly, he wasn't.
My sister and I saw the light
disappearing from his eyes.
My own son
was born a year later,
and I swore I would do
anything
to protect him from
what had happened to my nephew.
So everything you have done
has been in the spirit of saving
children, not endangering them?
Yes. Absolutely.
Vaccines
are potentially harmful,
and once they're administered,
they can't be reversed.
All I'm advocating for
is the right of every parent
to weigh the risks
and make that decision
for their own child.
Thank you, Ms. Malko.
Ms. Malko, did you know
that the
Institute for Medicine,
the CDC,
and numerous other research
groups have found no links
between vaccines and autism?
I don't trust the CDC
or Big Pharma.
There's overwhelming
evidence
that thimerosal
was a causal agent of autism--
That theory's been refuted,
and thimerosal was removed
from vaccines in 2001.
Are you aware of that?
I am aware of every argument
used to ostracize and vilify
the so-called anti-vaxxers.
Again, I'm not anti-science.
I'm not against vaccines.
I just believe it should be
a choice
made by individual families,
not imposed by bureaucrats.
Bureaucrats like the CDC
and the Department of Education?
- That's right.
- Okay.
New York City also mandates
that students not be allowed
to bring weapons such as knives
or guns to school.
- Do you agree with that policy?
- Yes.
What about, say,
not sending children to school
with so much as a single peanut
to protect anyone
with allergies.
Do you agree with that?
- Of course.
- Okay.
So if a mother wanted to make
her child a peanut butter
sandwich for lunch,
you would deny her that choice
because it might endanger
other children.
Yes.
But denying a child peanut
butter for lunch causes no harm.
Vaccines are harmful.
Not according
to medical science.
But, as we've seen,
not vaccinating children
causes serious medical harm,
not just in your son's school.
All over the city.
At last count, 5,500 people
have been exposed to this virus.
Who knows
how many more will get sick?
It's my child. My right.
My decision.
But you didn't just make a
decision for yourself, did you?
You made a decision
that endangered everyone else.
- Your Honor.
- What gives you the right
- to take away their choice?
- Objection.
- Mr. Barba.
- Nothing further.
Hey, you heard
anything about Noah?
Yeah, they're holding off
on the spinal tap for now.
- Well, that's good, right?
- Yeah.
How's Liv?
I can't even imagine.
You know, in the middle of
all this, she had to remind me
to make sure that Gil
and Zara were vaccinated.
They were, right?
Yeah.
Cynthia told me
that she's worried
about Gil's middle school.
They have family in San Diego.
She and Gil might move there.
Maybe it'll be good
for 'em.
Well, not for me.
Look, I want to be part
of his life.
I mean, I want to be a father
to him.
Okay, but you do what you do
with Zara.
You call. You write.
You visit.
Right. It's just--
I'm trying so hard
to make everything work.
Does anything ever get easier?
Not that I've heard.
Sorry to interrupt.
(both)
You're not interrupting.
Okay. Jury's back.
On the charge
of reckless endangerment
in the first degree,
how do you find?
We find the defendant
not guilty.
[commotion]
Order.
On the charge of one count
reckless endangerment
in the second, how do you find?
We find the defendant guilty.
[commotion]
- What?
They should've hit her
with the felony count.
She got three months
in jail, nine months probation.
How's Noah doing?
I think the worst
is over.
We should be home
in a day or two.